# Watson Discovery JDBC Driver for Cloud Pak for Data

wd-jdbc-driver allows Java programs to connect to a Watson Discovery projects, collections, and documents via JDBC driver interfaces in pure Java code. This will enable Watson Discovery to integrate with Cloud Pak for Data as data asset

## Prereq

- Build with Java 17 JDK

## Format

```shell
./gradlew spotlessApply
```

## Build

```shell
./gradlew shadowJar
```

Fat JAR file should be created in `./build/libs`.

## Test

```shell
./gradlew test
```

## How to use in CP4D

1. Login to CP4D console.
2. Go to *Side panel -> Data -> Platform Connections*.
3. Select *JDBC drivers* tab
4. Drag and drop the JAR file built in `build/libs/` directory.
5. Select *New generic JDBC connection* button.
6. Select *Generic JDBC* connection type in *Add connection* page.
7. Fill in connection details
   1. *Name*: Any names e.g., `wd-driver`
   2. *JAR uris*: Select the JAR file you uploaded in the step above.
   3. *JDBC url*: `jdbc:wd://<WD_SERVICE_URL>`
   4. *JDBC driver*: `com.ibm.wd.connector.jdbc.WDDriver`
   5. *Username*: `bearer` for the instances in private CP4D cluster, `iamapikey` for the instances in IBM Public Cloud.
   6. *Password*: Bearer token for CP4D instance, IAM API key for IBM Cloud instances.
8. Try *Test connection* and check the test passes
9. Select *Create*.
10. Create new *Analytics* project or select existing one.
11. In project page, select *Add to project -> Connection* .
12. Select *From platform* tab in *Add connection* page.
13. Select the name of your connection created in the previous step.
14. *Add to project -> Data Refinery Flow*
15. In Data Refinery flow page, select *Connection -> {name_of_connection} -> mySchema -> sample*.
16. You can preview the mocked data generated by this JDBC driver by clicking *Preview* button that has the mark of an eye.
17. Click *Add* button.
18. Save the Data Refinery flow.
